
so theres Argh, then I'm thinking of taking the feedback I've gotten about it and making a new game which will have a Champloo-esque system to it. I want swords and I want them swinging somehow
samurai hip-hop style thing
I want to have that blood smear thing like when blood drips on the blocks



when I think samurai champloo I think nujabes and acrobatic sword fighting
all acrobatic and shit
yeah
that immediately makes me think Melee in some capacity

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ByMZYcDk18M

Melee is all about movement, the moves are secondary somewhat

I think the system I have in place in Argh will be able to work rather nicely here


so red is constantly moving and slicing. pretty continuous approach and bouncing off of walls to facilitate that
blue is simply positioning around that
except the opening I suppose
it goes back and forth



one guy gets advantage and presses but red clearly swings more
it is possible and impressive to have both [fast pace and precision]

thats what makes Melee so fucking good

when a player does cool shit fast it is impressive


https://gfycat.com/GroundedLiveAmericanwirehair


so then the whole experience we're aiming for is to have a fast paced and precise combat
yeah, that seems about it. The question is how to not have it be samurai gunn

ok so the relevant systems in broad strokes to such a game. Movement, Characters, Attacks, stages

characters are how the player is depicted, it could actually be relevant if a player has a specific foot forward


movement could be instant, have acceleration, have different systems
so say a character sprite has two legs that are considered different, depending on stance it could denote a character's specific options


I guess that gets into the next section. Attacks
Could be street fighter style, multiple buttons denoting a specific attack
or smash, one button + direction + timing
i want to keep player input relatively simple. ideally an easy to learn hard to master kind of thing
Oh, for positioning and stances. Nidhogg has what I'm talking about



easy to learn hard to master means simple inputs, complicated/deep system


ok, so to me that says stances in a nidhogg sense
nidhogg is relatively deep

oh shit, you know what this makes me think of a little. Samurai Shodown
thats the health system I want
unlike nidhogg or samurai gunn where it's a one touch death thing
shodown has healthbars and attacks which do large amounts, with street fighter style button stuff
I don't necessarily want sf button layout. but I like how it manged the health system to make it challenging but not stark
Samurai Gunn and Nidhogg are sort of points based if you get what I mean


you win an interaction, get a point/run forward
new interaction
what I like about shodown is that it allows for longer sets of interaction. You win a little, get a play advantage, and then get a point advantage
it allows for interplay. I didn't realize thats what I don't like about Nidhogg despite it being fun


so what is the maximum number of buttons that it would take to remain simple to learn
so I was just about to get to that actually
I think the game needs to be, at least in the first iteration, as simple as possible
I want the current controls, along with down, attack, and block
down i'm debating

but as far as maximum simplicity, attack and block are relevant now, I would like a jump button, but that isn't strictly necessary and would be a design decision
oh i meant jump
jump is in there


up vs jump is later
or rather, up = jump vs up & jump being seperate


well I think the thing I'm saying is that I want depth to come not from control differences but from mastery of the movement system


i think the thing I'm trying to say is that I don't really want multiple attacks?
like, I don't want multiple moves, I want the player to be able to know the entire control space within 20 minutes
actually 10




I would like at least 2. The issue with no separate attacks means that a health system isn't a ton different from a point system
There isn't interplay over what moves work in a situation. But in that case the question is how sophisticated you want the movement, otherwise it is just samurai gunn


maybe we could have it so that the attack you're performing goes in the direction you're moving
so say you're going down, your sword would hit whatever is below you
then you have to use the movement as a form of attack variance
whereas samurai gunn has 4-way attack right?
this is enforced movement towards the opponent?
if you want to attack
you could not move backwards and swing forwards


we could have two separate attack where one is forward and one is backward
If you're willing to have heavy and weak attacks there is a lot to do with that
as in a heavy attack, a weak attack
attack strength could be based on time held, similar to smash
the whole wind-up mechanic
yeah with charge smashes
that actually works really well
should we keep the movement based attack like I was talking about?
in smash you can do forward attacks while moving back, not cleanly
yes
a good player uses the c-stick to have moves be independent of movement, but it isn't drastic to do it otherwise
having a windup makes movement direction actually relevant
because you could only do weak attacks while moving back quickly
going back to samurai champloo  red is constanly swinging and moving. there are moments where blue pauses walking to swing harder
definitely
so for charging attacks, should the movement be cancelled entirely? or should it just slow?
character should slide
slow to a halt
depending on character speed. This would encourage proper fast movement as well
what about midair attacks?
initial reaction is to make it lock your direction. If you do an attack in midair you lose the ability to manuver
should it slow, halt, or slow to a halt?
aerial wise?
yeah
neither. you keep your momentum but can't change it
so swinging on the ground makes you slide, swinging in the air makes you not be able to manuver
hmm, sounds good
and if we have a block button it means you're flying towards an opponent with no ability to defend yourself cause you're swinging
hmm
I like that
after the attack is done though if you're in the air you can block after you're done, which keeps the charging aspect intact
for sure
so do we want block to be universal block or directional too?
oooh
Directional block actually sounds dope






hadn't considered blocking not being universal
that brings risk to dash dancing, aka moving in and out of your opponent's range to bait an attack
do we want blocking to be the same mechanic as attacking? as in, a forward and a backward?
if we are doing directional yes


alternate option if we are doing health, blocking the wrong way could do half damage


how does blocking affect movement
if we want to incentivize movement and attacking a lot


blocking in smash makes you immobile, movement is really important in smash, blocking is only alright
bad in a lot of situations
this incentivizes movement
blocking  in traditional fighting games is really good
except for marvel and games with insane offense

so I think I want to make blocking meet in the middle with this

you don't move a ton in traditional fighting games like street fighter
have it slow more than attacking, but not completely stop
but with marvel you move a lot because offense is so important
ok that sounds good but I want to think about that more

so movement
movement

If we can't go 3d, to simulate the fast pace of champloo stuff we want large, wide stages
you need space to run around in



but maybe not too tall if we want the characters to be around human size in relation to environment and sword attacks


cause red does crazy shit, but he can't jump super high
Movement and environment seem pretty linked

so starting with the obvious Teahouse, would you want any other stage or is a one stage game overall?
of course starting out with only one stage
one stage to start is good
we can move on from there



So what are your initial impressions on ways to move? I can think of jumping, vaulting, and sliding depending on how you want to go about it
I kinda also want to have throwing tables but that would be complicated to explain
context based attacks

for sure


I think for now there's going to be moving left/right, jumping into the air, and walljumping
how about sliding?
hold down and jump
and hit jump

i think just holding down would work fine for sliding
hold down and run
similar to how attacks stop movement
maybe less maybe more


can you attack from a slide? can you block?
I like attacks that go upward as a counter to jumping, but that brings in complications with blocking
for sure
i think sliding would mechanically be a dodge
so no attacking/blocking from a slide
at least not yet




I liken it to a wavedash but yeah thats a later thing
wavedashing in melee lets you move quick at the expense of a short startup
but lets you act out
regardless that is a later thing
for sure
so jump, walljump, slide
yup
are walljumps at a stuck angle?
can you influence it?
that was something I *want* to do
but I'm not sure how to achieve a user input walljump direction without it being awkward as fuck
that is a later thing. if you want it, it's a thing to work on




I assume you can't jump super high or overly influence your momentum once jumped
cause samurai champloo


I like that as a good baseline though. You can slow down or speed up a little, but it is mostly determined by your speed when you jump
do you want a run button? or alternatively a dash button
nah not at the moment

ok  in that case I like you accelerating when starting to run
if movement is to be important, then moving a lot is good, and slowing down is bad
this makes quick attacks better because they don't slow you down too much
and turning around once going fast shouldn't slow overly
this forces players to keep running
walljumps could increase speed or keep it the same to make them better + higher risk than simple turning arounds


stages are set as 1 and can be fleshed out later
this is a super later thing, how do you feel about different characters?
possibly
right now I want a mechanically even playing field








